Javi, I would like to analyze how
display advertising works
on the Internet.
So what I am going to do is...
I will ask you a few questions.
First, who is involved in this?
Who are the players?
I think the two main actors
are clear.
On the one hand, we have an advertiser,
which is the part of the purchase.
It is someone who seeks to buy
a advertising space to a certain
target that has been marked.
And, on the other hand, we have on the
other side the part of the sale, which
are the supports.
Who are the digital supports?
I think the fragmentation is
infinite.
Any property is the
property of the Internet.
Call it a blog, call it a
mobile app, which has an inventory
available to those advertisers.
What is the inventory?
We would say too.
The inventory, by definition, is
the entire space that can receive
an impact advertising.
That is, those blank spaces that
have to be filled by the advertiser
to unfold their message or
paint their message to the
user.
The inventory would be...
We are entering an online era.
And the inventory is the spaces
that have up, down, wherever
it is.
Or initially...
Inventory is the
volume of spaces
that are able
to offer you in
a given time.
And they sell it to me, who am the advertiser.
To make the advertising impact.
It is also important that we know
that there are other actors within
this equation, such as meters.
In Spain, the only measurement
certified by the IAB, which is the
regulatory body of all digital
advertising, is Comscore.
Comscore basically does what it
does is measure the traffic of each
of those internet properties so
that it publicly offers us that
traffic information.
Traffic is basically the
volume of traffic impressions
that each of those properties has.
We also measure this in
single users.
That is, Comscore tells us what
is amongst many metrics that
gives us is how many unique users
have interacted with that
property in a month.
The country has had 20 million
unique users in the world,
21 brand, 12, etc.
Then it brings transparency because
when you hire a campaign in the
country you already have that information
certified, right?
Evidently, because at the end
of the day, obviously, each of those
properties measures internally
what volumes they handle,
but we always need a certificator
that homogenizes the
data and publishes it in a public
and certain way with a few
standards behind which are
measured and that gives
that reliability to the market
that everyone needs.
To end the players we have said that
there are some advertisers, the
companies we are investing
in advertising and that what we
do is buy supports, that
is the other of the players,
that are the publishers, the owners
of an application, a web page,
a blog, whatever, and you have
also talked to us about the
certificators that in all
this provide transparency.
The next question I'll ask you
is how is this contracted?
I am the advertiser, you have already
told me there are some supports,
but what do I do?
I think the way to hire is very
varied but we could again clear
it out in two large blocks.
There may be a manual contract.
Manual hiring is a typical,
prototypical hiring of how the
entire life has been done to
hire the police officer.
Just like someone before wanted
to hire a page in a newspaper
and you went to the newspaper paid
for your page and gave you that space,
because on the internet we
can basically do the same thing.
You can have a direct relationship
with that support, that is, you hear,
I'm interested in hiring this
volume of your inventory in a
certain time and negotiated at
a certain price, right?
Is it always the advertiser who
goes to the support?
No to.
In Spain and around the world,
advertising is very
intermediate, practically 90% of
advertising is intermediate but
simply for an efficiency issue,
right?
There are players that are
media agencies and media purchasing
agencies that basically
do is negotiate with those
supports both what spaces are
the ones they will hire as the
price at which they will hire
and then the advertiser who
is your customer transfer what
is the best of the options translated
into what we could call
a medium plan, not a
media plan.
Why is it?
Because imagine with the
fragmentation that has the internet,
with how poor the entry barrier
or the low that is the internet
entry barrier and the multitude
of players there, if a single advertiser,
a Danone Mr, had to sit with
all and each of the owners of
an internet property to negotiate
a campaign, it would be
absolutely unavailable,
it would be inefficient and
also probably would hire there
where the results will
not necessarily accompany
you in the best way and that
is a job that agencies
cover in a basic way
for this business.
So manually you can do it directly,
you can do it through an agency
and then finally we have the
automation of these processes, let's
say that it is the whole
part of programmatic advertising
that is what is in everyone's
mouth in the last few years
and that I think it's worth
deepening into a later class
in everything that involves,
how it is handled and what
are the actors of this type
of advertising.
Well, you have told that, manual
that is between people
or automatic, in the manual we can
directly contact with that publisher,
because imagine we call the expansion
and send us a powerpoint
or a pdf with the space,
etc., with different prices,
we decided that it is not efficient
this and if you have a huge
budget and you want to go out
on a lot of sites, as you
said Mr. Danone, because it
is impossible to manage
all that.
There are people who can help you,
who have the relationship with
all publishers, who advise you,
make a medium plan, etc. or we have
the automated form through programming
networks, platforms that
you will tell us in detail
how it works.
The next question is,
regardless of whether we do it
one way or another, how is it paid?
Well, there are a multitude of ways,
that is, we can go again the
most traditional way, because
just like we put before the
example of going and hiring
a page of a newspaper and that
the page of the newspaper costs
me 5,000 euros, because I can
do a model that we call more
sponsorship, that is, I want
to have my space in a fixed
way during this temporary
window in this specific space
and what we call a fixed
cost, because this costs
5,000 or costs 10,000.
Anything on the day.
Effectively, a trade is a cost,
a cost price and then what we
can do is go to variable prices
that can be fixed too, but let's
say we enter models like the
CPM, which is the cost per thousand,
because for every thousand impressions
that the publisher offers, every
thousand impacts, because it has
a certain cost, we can go
to a cost per click, exclusively
when they click on my creativity,
a cost of CPA, which is a
cost per acquisition,
a cost per lead, which is
every time a form is filled,
information is asked, etc.
These are a bit, say, the
variation of costs that exist
in the hiring models that exist
on the internet today.